Added FerretDB documentation. (#573)
elastisys/compliantkubernetes: docs/user-guide/additional-services/ferretdb.md

# FerretDB (self-service)

> [FerretDB](https://www.ferretdb.io/) is a database that is an open-source alternative to MongoDB that uses Postgres as its backend database. This documentation details how to run FerretDB in a Compliant Kubernetes cluster using the managed [Postgres service](https://elastisys.io/compliantkubernetes/user-guide/additional-services/postgresql/).

Reviewer: Please use internal links, so that the reader is pointed to the right version and mkdocs can do internal links consistency checks.

```suggestion
[FerretDB](https://www.ferretdb.io/) is a database that is an open-source alternative to MongoDB that uses Postgres as its backend database. This documentation details how to run FerretDB in a Compliant Kubernetes cluster using the managed [Postgres service](postgresql.md).
```

## Build and push

> The upstream FerretDB image cannot run as non-root due to folder permission issues. The following Dockerfile can be used to build an image for FerretDB that can run as non-root:

Reviewer: Can you explain why FerretDB needs a `/state` folder? I thought it's completely stateless. What are the implications on running FerretDB in HA? What about disaster recovery?

Author: It seems as if the state, as seen [here](https://github.com/FerretDB/FerretDB/blob/ce7ca66ab2812da49ece95842e8875ecb4a46535/internal/util/state/state.go#L28), is just a UUID, some telemetry settings, and version information. Seems to be used for metrics.

Reviewer: And we seem to have telemetry disabled. Nice!

Does this mean `/state` will be mapped on an `emptyDir`? Seems fine by me!

Can you add a comment in the `Dockerfile` so people don't freak out?

Author: As of now, with how we build the `Dockerfile`, the /state directory is just inside the container itself. But we could try to mount an `emptyDir` and maybe then we won't even have to build an image ourselves.

Reviewer: It would be really cool if we could use `emptyDir` magic, perhaps with `fsGroup` to eliminate this step!

Reviewer 2: Using `emptyDir` with the original container image for ferretdb worked, we updated the document for this.

```Dockerfile
FROM busybox:1.36 as builder

RUN mkdir /state

FROM ghcr.io/ferretdb/ferretdb

ARG user=1001

COPY --from=builder --chown=$user:$user /state /state

USER $user
```

Save the file as `Dockerfile` and build the image: 
```
docker build . -t $REGISTRY/$PROJECT/ferretdb:$TAG
```

Push the image:
```
docker push $REGISTRY/$PROJECT/ferretdb:$TAG
```

> **Note** <br/>

> > If you are using managed Harbor as your container registry, please follow [these instructions](https://elastisys.io/compliantkubernetes/user-guide/deploy/) for authenticating, setting up projects, as well as creating robot accounts and using them in a pull secret to safely pull the image from Harbor.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> If you are using managed Harbor as your container registry, please follow [these instructions](../deploy.md) for authenticating, setting up projects, as well as creating robot accounts and using them in a pull secret to safely pull the image from Harbor.
```

## Install

> In a managed CK8s environment, follow these instructions on how to access the managed postgres service and how to create an application user and database: https://elastisys.io/compliantkubernetes/user-guide/additional-services/postgresql/#getting-access.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In a managed CK8s environment, follow [these instructions](postgresql.md#getting-access) on how to access the managed postgres service and how to create an application user and database.
```

Create secret containing a postgres url to authenticate to the managed postgres service and newly created database with the application user credentials:
```sh
kubectl create secret generic --from-literal=ferretdb-url="postgresql://$APP_USERNAME:$APP_PASSWORD@$PGHOST:$PGPORT/$APP_DATABASE" ferretdb-postgres-credentials -n ferretdb
```

Deploy:
```yaml
apiVersion: apps/v1
kind: Deployment
metadata:
  name: ferretdb
  namespace: ferretdb
  labels:
    run: ferretdb
spec:

>   replicas: 1

Reviewer: Can we use more replicas here?

Author: I tested running with multiple replicas. The FerretDB pods have no mention of knowing each other so they seems to acts as just individual clients to postgres, but postgres would handle concurrent updates right? So that should be fine. But I tried running a small insert script, and killing a replica and it worked. Since Ferret does not manage HA itself, I guess the user would have to make sure to handle errors in their MongoDB calls, and retry if an insert fails for example.

```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Service
metadata:
  name: ferretdb-service
  namespace: ferretdb
  labels:
    run: ferretdb
spec:
  type: ClusterIP
  selector:
   run: ferretdb
  ports:
    - protocol: TCP
      port: 27017
      targetPort: 27017
```

To try out access to FerretDB, you can port-forward the Service to localhost and connect using mongosh:
```sh
kubectl port-forward svc/ferretdb-service 27017

mongosh mongodb://localhost:27017
```

## Python client example
The following is an example of how to connect to FerretDB using the [PyMongo](https://pymongo.readthedocs.io/en/stable/) Python library (using the localhost port-forwarding described above).

```python 
from pymongo import MongoClient

client = MongoClient('mongodb://localhost:27017')

# List all databases
print(client.list_database_names())

# List collections in the database "mongodb"
print(client['mongodb'].list_collection_names())

# Create db and insert element into a collection
database   = client['test_db']
collection = database['customers']

mydict = { "name": "John", "address": "Highway 38" }

collection.insert_one(mydict)
print(collection.find_one())

> ```

Reviewer: For our deeper understanding, can you post the SQL dump? I'm curious to know how the database looks like on PostgreSQL. Are the proper indexes created?

Reviewer: Lol! :smile:

```sql
CREATE TABLE test_db.customers_c09344de (
    _jsonb jsonb
);

CREATE UNIQUE INDEX customers__id__e06693c2_idx ON test_db.customers_c09344de USING btree (((_jsonb -> '_id'::text)));
```

I think that explains 99.9% how FerretDB works! Thanks!

Can you link the `pg_dump.txt` in the docs? Thanks!
